the Asgardian Loki who we just met in
the last movie Thor encounters the other
the leader of an extraterrestrial race
known as the Chitauri in exchange for
retrieving the tesseract a powerful
energy source of unknown potential the
other promises Loki an army with which
he can subjugate earth Nick Fury
director of the espionage agency shield
and his lieutenant agent Maria hill
arrive at a remote research facility
during an evacuation where physicist dr.
Erik Selvig is leading a research team
experimenting on the tesseract agent
Phil Coulson explains that the object
has begun radiating an unusual form of
energy
the tesseract suddenly activates and
opens a wormhole allowing Loki to reach
earth Loki takes the tesseract and uses
his scepter to enslave Selvig and a
couple of agents including Clint Barton
to aid him in his getaway in response to
the attack fury reactivates the Avengers
initiative agent natasha romanoff is
sent to Kolkata to recruit dr. Bruce
Banner to trace the tesseract through
its gamma radiation emissions Coulson
visits Tony Stark to have him review
salvage research and fury approaches
Steve Rogers with an assignment to
retrieve the tesseract in Stuttgart bard
and Steel's iridium needed to stabilise
the test Rex power while Loki caused the
distraction leading to a confrontation
with Rogers stark and Romanoff that ends
with Loki surrender while Loki is being
escorted the shield Thor his adoptive
brother arrives and frees him hoping to
convince him to abandon his plan to
return to Asgard after a confrontation
with stark and Rogers Thor agrees to
take Loki the shield's flying aircraft
carrier the Helicarrier
there are Loki is imprisoned while
banner and Stark attempt to locate the
tesseract
The Avengers become divided both over
how to approach Loki and the revelation
that shield plans to harness the
tesseract to develop weapons as a
deterrent against hostile
extraterrestrials as the group argues
Barton and Loki's other possessed agents
attacked the Helicarrier disabling its
engines in flight and causing banner to
transform into the hull darkened Rogers
try to restart the damaged engine and
Thor attempts to stop the Hulk's rampage
Romanoff fights Barton and knocks him
unconscious breaking Loki's mind control
Loki escapes after killing Coulson and
ejecting floor from the airship while
the Hulk falls to the ground after
attacking a shield fighter jet Thierry
uses Coulson's death to motivate the
Avengers into working as a team Stark
and Rogers realized that furlough fees
simply defeating them will not be enough
he needs to overpower them publicly to
validate himself as ruler of Earth
Loki uses the tesseract in conjunction
with the device Selvig built to open a
wormhole above stark tower to the
Chitauri fleet in space launching his
invasion the avengers rally in defense
of New York City the wormholes location
but quickly realized they'll be
overwhelmed as wave after wave of
guitarra descend upon her Bruce Banner
arrives and transforms into the halt
that might be a really good time for you
to get angry that's my secret
I'm always angry
and together he Steve Rogers Tony Stark
Thor Clint Barton and Natasha Romanov
battled the Chitauri while evacuating
civilians
the Hulk finds Loki and beats him into
submission Romanoff makes your way to
the wormhole generator while Seldon
freed of Loki control reveals that
Loki's scepter can be used to shut down
the generator meanwhile Fury's superiors
attempt to end the invasion by launching
a nuclear missile at midtown Manhattan
Stark intercepts the missile and takes
it through the wormhole toward the
Chitauri fleet the missile detonates
destroying the Chitauri mothership and
disabling their forces on earth Starks
suit runs out of power and he falls back
through the wormhole
just as Romanoff closes it start goes
into freefall but the Hulk saves him can
crash into the ground in the aftermath
Thor returns Loki and the tesseract to
Asgard
while fury expresses confidence that the
Avengers will return if and when they
are needed in a mid credit scene the
other confers of his master Thanos about
the failed attack on earth
in a post-credits scene the Avengers
eatin salads at a former restaurant
which Tony Stark earlier mentioned in
the movie that they would do after the
beating the Chitauri